1. What are some of the key design philosophies of a Linux operating system? From what I've read, the philosophy of an operating system is very telling of what it aims to achieve. For example, Windows philosophy is to "shield the users from everything that might get them into trouble." One way this can be interpreted is that its users would be afraid of computers and wouldn't know how to use them, and as a result, should be shielded from its complexities. This is the complete opposite or Unix's and Linux's philosophies which assumes that the users already know how to use and interact with a computer. Linux doesn't assume that is users are incompetent, and thus, doesn't shield it from complexities or prevent them from getting into trouble. Linux treats its users equally and allows them all free range to do something clever or even something bad. Linux gives you complete control by working on the command line. It's more transparent then Unix and Windows, and unlike Windows, it does not handhold.
2. What is a VPS (Virtual Private Server)? What are the advantages of using a VPS? A virtual private server is similar to having a physical server (computer), but cloud-based. It's a computer/OS in the cloud. You can create and run programs on it and access it from your own computer (locally) and allow other users to access your VPN as well (through a port) or restrict access.
3. Why is it considered bad to run programs as a root user in the Linux system? Running programs as a root user might harm the core of your OS. You should run programs at the user level and leave the administrative tasks to the root user. It's similar to how you should keep your master branch clean, and branch off to test other functions on a new branch.